
# User defined  fields

	
>Example Response:  

```json
{
  ...
  "emp_birthday":"1997-01-27",
  "Qualification": "MBA"
 .... 
}
```
    
        As the name shows these fields are user-defined fields. A user with admin rights can add such custom fields using eRS Cloud Application. These fields can be used to capture additional info in Resources, Project and Booking form.
       
        User defined  fields’s are filterable. Also, the user can change the visibility of such fields in the different form which are Resource, Project and Booking form respectively.
       
        There are fifteen types of fields which user can create. Every custom field has its own API code.
            
    Once such fields are added, the response for that object will contain these along with normal attributes. 
    
    

<aside id="noticeAside">A user can add maximum 30 user-defined fields.</aside>



##  Types of User defined  fields


The types of User defined  fields one can create are as follows: 


Name <span style="width:100px; float:left;"></span>|Description
:-  | :-
**Simple Text** &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| Allows user to enter any combination of letters and numbers. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. Also, you can validate this field. You can set validation as maximum length and minimum length.You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one <span style = "color:#d14">`available in`</span> our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Multi Line Rich Text** | Allows user to enter long rich text. This field has a maximum length of 2000 characters. Also, here a user can do formatting such as adding headers, paragraphs,etc. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Integer Number** |Allows user to enter any number. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can validate this field by passing maximum length and minimum length.You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Fractional Number** | Allows user to enter integer number. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can validate this field by passing maximum length and minimum length.You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Date** | Allows user to enter date from popup calendar.  Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can validate this field by passing Maximum Value and Minimum value which is Minimum date and Maximum date.You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**DateTime** |  Allows user to enter date and time from Popup calendar. Also, you have to pass API code which will be referred to as a key.  You can validate this field by passing Maximum Value and Minimum value which is Minimum date and Maximum date.You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**URL** |Allows user to enter a valid website address. When user clicks on the link, URL will open in a separate browser tab. You have to pass API code which will be referred to as a key. You can add prefix and postfix to this field. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field. 
**Email** |Allows user to enter an email address, which is validated to ensure the proper format.You have to pass API code which will be referred to as a key. You can add prefix and postfix to this field. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field. 
**Checkbox** |Allows user to select or deselect a value using checkbox. You have to API code which will be referred to as a key. By default, you can set it’s value checked or unchecked. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Checkbox Group** |  Allows user to select one or more values from a group of checkboxes. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Radio Group**  | Allows user to select single value from multiple values. You have to add values and it’s description for every entity. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Color Picker** |  Allows user to select a color using color picker. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Label**  | Allows user to select a single value with color from the dropdown list. You have to add values and it’s description for every entity with a color. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Drop Down Single Select**  |  Allows user to select a single value from the dropdown list. You have to add values and it’s description for every entity as a dropdown option. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.
**Dropdown  Multi select**  |  Allows user to select multiple values from the dropdown list. You have to add values and it’s description for every entity as a dropdown option. Also, you have to pass  API code which will be referred to as a key. You can add a description for this text so that you can refer it to understand the requirement and use of this field. This field is visible to the end user. You can add help text, information text. You can pass a boolean value to make this field filterable or not. Also, importantly you have to assign at least one available in our 3 forms which are Resource form, Project Form and Booking Form respectively. You can select multiple options for this field.


## Filters for User-defined fields

|**Field Type**| **Available Operator**  | **Description & Example**|
|:--|:--|:--|
|**Simple Text**| <ul> <li>has *(default)* </li><li>eq</li></ul> |**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d simtext='Simple Text' (default) </li><li>-d simtext:has='Simple Text' </li><li>-d simtext:eq='Simple Text Ed' </li></ul> 
|**Integer Number**|  <ul><li>eq *(default)* </li><li>lt </li><li>  gt </li><li> bt </li><li> ex</li> |**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d int_test=41 </li><li>-d int_test:eq=41 </li><li>-d int_test:lt=41</li><li>-d int_test:gt=41</li><li>-d int_test:lt=41</li><li>-d int_test:bt="41&#124;121"</li><li>-d int_test:bt=41</li><li>-d int_test:ex="41&#124;121"</li><li>-d int_test:ex=41</li></ul>  
|**Fractional Number**|  <ul><li>eq *(default)* </li><li>lt </li><li>  gt </li><li> bt </li><li> ex</li> |**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d float_test=12.1 </li><li>-d float_test:eq=12.1 </li><li>-d float_test:lt=45.6</li><li>-d float_test:gt=121.1</li><li>-d float_test:bt="1.0&#124;121.1"</li><li>-d float_test:bt=22.6</li><li>-d float_test:ex="15.7&#124;45.6"</li><li>-d float_test:ex=45.6</li></ul>  
|**Date**|   <ul><li>eq *(default)* </li><li>lt </li><li>  gt </li><li> bt </li><li> ex</li> |**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d emp_birthday=1992-02-12</li><li>-d emp_birthday:eq=1992-02-12</li><li>-d emp_birthday:lt=1992-02-12 </li><li>-d emp_birthday:gt=1992-02-12 </li><li>-d emp_birthday:bt="1992-02-12&#124;1999-07-07"</li><li>-d emp_birthday:bt=1992-02-12 </li><li>-d emp_birthday:ex="1992-02-12&#124;1997-01-27" </li><li>-d emp_birthday:ex=1992-02-12 </li></ul>  
|**DateTime**|  <ul><li>eq *(default)* </li><li>lt </li><li>  gt </li><li> bt </li><li> ex</li> |**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d date_time_test="2018-06-06T18:30:00Z" </li><li>-d date_time_test:eq="2018-06-06T18:30:00Z"</li><li>-d date_time_test:lt="2018-06-06T18:30:00Z"</li><li>-d date_time_test:gt="2018-06-06T18:30:00Z"</li><li>-d date_time_test:bt=2018-06-06T18:30:00Z&#124; 2018-06-06T18:30:00Z </li><li>-d date_time_test:bt="2018-06-06T18:30:00Z"</li><li>-d date_time_test:ex="2018-06-06T18:30:00Z&#124; 2018-06-06T18:30:00Z </li><li>-d date_time_test:ex="2018-06-06T18:30:00Z" </li></ul>  
|**Email**| <ul> <li>has *(default)* </li><li>eq</li></ul> |**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d email='@'</li><li>-d email:has='a' </li><li>-d email:eq='ana.steele@mycompany.com' </li></ul>  
|**Checkbox**|Default value is true, accepts value true and false |**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d check_test=true </li><li>-d check_test=false </li></ul> 
|**Checkbox Group**| <ul> <li>any *(default)* </li><li>all</li></ul>|**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d check_group_test="16&#124;18"</li><li>-d check_group_test:any="17&#124;10"</li><li>-d check_group_test:all="16&#124;17"</li></ul>    
|**Radio Group**|<ul> <li>eq *(default)* </li><li>any</li></ul>|**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d radio_test=15 </li><li>-d radio_test:eq=15 </li><li>-d radio_test:any=15 </li></ul>  
|**Label**|<ul> <li>eq *(default)* </li><li>any</li></ul> |**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d label_test=18 </li><li>-d label_test:eq=18 </li><li>-d label_test:any=18 </li></ul>  
|**Drop Down Single Select**| <ul> <li>eq *(default)* </li><li>any</li></ul>|**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d ddss_test=15 </li><li>-d ddss_test:eq=15 </li><li>-d ddss_test:any=15 </li></ul>  
|**Drop Down Multi Select**|<ul> <li>any *(default)* </li><li>all</li></ul>|**Example:** <br><ul><li>-d ddms_test="20&#124;21"</li><li>-d ddms_test:any="20&#124;21"</li><li>-d ddms_test:all="20&#124;21"</li></ul>  